As you start working with CSX inevitably you are going to meet the last rule principle as well as specificity.
And then you also going to see later on whenever we are working we have universal select and I'm gonna
kind of lump them together because I think all of them pretty much work on a principle of the previous
one.
So let's start with a last rule.
So let's imagine this scenario again we have our Dave we have had him two and then here I have to program.
Now let's just get rid of all the styles just so you don't get confused and let's imagine they're all
going to be styling just a paragraph by itself.
So when we get as always we're going to use the color example and I'm gonna say color is blue.
Now if I'm gonna later on in the same style sheet had the same selection for the paragraph with a different
color what do you think is gonna happen.
So let's say here I'm going to say a paragraph and in my case this is gonna be red.
Now what do you think is gonna happen.
Well we can already see that paragraphs are right now and to be with a color of red.
Now why is that happening.
Well because CSX is gonna use the last rule that you added and then apply that to the station.
Now usually what's gonna happen is that you're gonna be kind of hard working with your CSX and you're
gonna be adding lines and lines and lines and CSX and then later on you're gonna come here somewhere
on line thirty two or three thousand and forty nine and then you're all gonna add in the that.
So what happens is that you're going to kind of fuse the fact that you already have your style selection
or here.
And he says it's gonna be like Okay so you had your first rule or whatever second rule or whatever but
later on you actually create a new one.
So I'm going to use right now in the fact that you added this last rule and I'm gonna apply only the.
So please remember whenever you're working that your last rule is gonna be applied regardless of what
you have in between.
So that's something to really too important to remember because there's gonna be cases where you're
going to find yourself looking for the reasoning of why certain C S S is displayed.
So always check whether you haven't applied another rule that pretty much overrides your initial one.
No I also have a topic of specificity.
Now what would that mean.
Well okay let's look at the same example.
We have one paragraph and the second one.
So let's add maybe some kind of class to them.
Well let's write.
Class is going to be read here as well as for this guy.
Let's add the class and right now what happens if I'm gonna head over again back and assess first of
all let's tile the class of red.
Let's write obviously the color and in our case is going to be red.
But let's say that later on again somewhere in the document we're going to write that where all my paragraphs
in this case I would like to style them blue.
Do you think there are gonna be blue right now since we just covered the last rule or there's still
gonna be red.
Well my to out as you notice they are staying red.
And the reason for that is even though we are applying this with a last rule the first rule is more
specific.
So what's happening with CSX CSX has a specific measurement system for specificity.
And if you want to be really diligent about that you can just go ahead and google specificity measurement
in CSX.
Now I'm not going to cover this because I don't really find it useful right now especially if we're
just starting with CSX.
However if you would like to go and explore on your own you're more than welcome to do that.
And at the very beginning I believe I would go with W3 schools again because their explanation probably
is gonna be the most straightforward especially as you're just starting out with a CSX.
Now I'd also like to cover very quickly the fact that we have the universal selector which select all
they own.
So if I'm just going to get rid of this and if I'm gonna say there's gonna be universal selector and
the way we type universal selector is by this asterisk and again let's add some kind of value so let's
say color is gonna be blue.
All my elements are going to meet the blue.
However the kicker here is that universal selector has the least amount of the actual specificity.
So even though we can add this at the very end if we're gonna be overwriting this somewhere.
So let's say again for the paragraphs we're gonna say color red.
Then the actual universal selector is gonna be the least powerful one.
So it's gonna have the least amount of specificity.
Now we are using universal selector whenever we want to reset the default browser stars which we will
going to cover a little bit later and we will gonna use this universal selector as we start working
with the project.
But in general this is all it's gonna do it's gonna select all the however with least amount of specificity.